---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

One mini research question that came about in a discussion with Danielle this week was how much time could be saved creating training data if using a preliminary neural network's output to assist with labeling. Currently, I am spending hours labeling bees in order to have more data to train the network on, but I also have a prelimanry network which is capable of identifying bees fairly well. Therefore, it would theoretically be possible to feed new data into the network, and use the output as a foundation for labeling; instead of starting from scratch, I would just have to clean up the data and fill in any gaps. We think this process may greatly increase the rate at which we could produce training data, therefore helping the network learn better, faster. Though this wouldn't work for the swarm I'm currently working on, as I've come too far to be helped by the network, I've begun to look a little into how long the labeling process is taking to assess how much time could be saved.

I timed how long it took for me to label 10 bees. I chose clear definied bees, and began the timer after I had located them; on average, each bee took around 8 minutes to label with a standard deviation of almost 2 minutes. The fastest bee to label took only 5 minutes and 43 seconds while the slowest took 11 minutes and 5 seconds. The total time for all 10 bees added up to about one hour and 24 minutes. I would roughly estimate that I spend about 75% of my time actually labeling the bees, and the rest (1) locating bees to label, (2) sorting through noise, (3) identifying the boundaries of blurry bees, and (4) prefroming quality control on completed bees. Additionally, bees which are not well defined (of which there are many) take significantly longer to identify. I also took these time measurments after labeling upwards of 350 bees total, so my time had definetly decreased with increased practice. Therefore, if I were to assume that all bees were well defined, locating the bees was instantaneous, and minimal quality control was performed past the initial labeling, it would take roughly ______ hours to label a cube of bees containing ____ individual bees. Labelling a small swarm containing ____ bees would take at least ______ hours. Considering this is an extreme underestimation of the actual time it would take, it is clear that labeling bees for training data, necessary for the neural network, is an extremely time intensive process.


- 9.36
- 8.03
- 5.43
- 7.28
- 6.54
- 8.40
- 11.05
- 8.26
- 8.00
- 9.51




