---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---



At this point of time, based soley on test loss, the best performing model was modification 1, trained on 27 crops (referred to as "modifcation 1.27" from now on). Though this model has the lowest test loss at 0.148, I think it is possible that some of the other models may actually perform better, and may just be picking up bees that I didn't identify in my labels, leading to a higher loss. Therefore, I'm not going to fully commit to any network yet; however, when looking at various interesting possibilities for the network, this modifcation 1.27 network is going to be where I start by default.

One such thing I looked at was the possibility of rotating the test cube to see if the network is able to identify bees in various orientations. I want to be sure that, if looking at a swarm of bees which may bee in a variety of orientations, the network will be able to identify them all well, even if they are not oriented in a way that was seen in training. In order to do this, I used the same test cube (the original cube, cropped in a way that was unseen in training), but I rotated it first 90 degrees and then 180 degrees along dimensions (0,2). Though it would have been more rigorous to test this cube rotated in a variety of degrees, I started with these simple ones so as not to have to worry about feeding a crooked cube to the network/having to recrop it. The first thing I noticed was that the model's performance had decreased and, given the original test cube, the loss had increased to 0.656. I reran this multiple times, and this loss stayed consit


